>> Jem Young: Today we are doing Full
Stack for Frontend Engineers 2, part two.
This is not an,
we won't say we're not going to
rehash that much from Frontend part one.
This is more of an extension, a little bit
deeper dive, the good stuff, if you will.
So if you took part one,
which I hope you all did.
I don't see everybody nodding, but
that's okay, took part one, that's good,
you should know the stuff,
love it, learn it.
If not, we are going to do a recap,
we're going to cover the high
level things we learned.
We're going to bring up another server,
configured just the way I like it.
Because I don't know what you all did,
but it may not be right and
I just want to make sure
we're on the same page.
And then we're going to get to some,
the really, really fun stuff, well,
it's fun to me, it will be fun to you.
My name is Jem Young, I am
a Senior Software Engineer at Netflix.
I work on the UI team, so
I work on the website,
a bit of the mobile app, this and that.
Yeah, why do I do full stack?
Everything I've learned today that I'm
going to tell you is things that I've just
picked up over my career.
They're things that I
think you need to know,
full stack is a little intimidating
of a term because it's really broad.
Anybody who remembers the first course
remembers we talked about networking and
DNS and packets and all these things.
It's a very, very broad topic.
And I want to say,
anybody just starting out,
here's all the things you need to know.
Forget all that stuff,
forget all these low level nuances.
These are the things
that you need to know,
things that I've used in my day
to day at some point or another.
Yes, and feel free to ask questions,
that's why I'm doing this live and
not some v-log, vlog?
See, you can tell I'm getting old,
I don't know the nomenclature anymore.
Serious business, slides, part two,
jemyoung.com, Frontend full stack 2.
The slides for
the original one are Frontend full stack.
I will be referring back to my original
slides because I won't remember
everything, no one does.
But they're all there,
I try to link back, if at all possible,
so we kind of close the whole circle.
Today, we're going to learn a few things.
I will not read all this because you've
probably seen an email at some point,
but the high level,
we're going to learn some Node.
We're going to learn some Bash,
create shell scripts, pretty awesome.
We're going to tune our Nginx just
a little bit more, we set it up last time.
We made some authorizations, but
today we are really going to make it much,
much faster.
In fact, I will probably blow your mind at
some point with how fast we are going to
make the Nginx.
Hopefully, hopefully at some point today,
I blow your mind with something.
That’s my goal, just for you to walk
out dazed, like wow, I learned a lot.
We are also going to learn
common server vulnerabilities,
this is a whole field in and of itself.
Application security, server security,
we're going to learn about some of those,
kind of just easy gotchas.
Just like in JavaScript, you're like,
I don't eval things, why do you do that?
Because everybody knows not to, that's
the same thing we're going to learn today.
We're going to learn how to add HTTPS,
I covered it briefly at
the end of the last course.
But we're going to do it today in a much
simpler way because technology has
come a long way since the first one.
It's only been a year,
we're going to understand databases a bit,
what are they, why do I need them?
How to install one,
how to pick the right one.
Then we're going to understand
containers and automating deployments,
that'll be fun.
We're going to wrap up with that,
because it's a little more dense,
a little more technical.